." Manpage for openqa-mon
." Contact felix.niederwanger@suse.de to correct errors and/or typos.
.TH openqa-mon 8 "12 Feb 2025" "1.1" "openqa-mon man page"
.SH NAME
openqa-mon - CLI tool for live monitoring of openQA jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
openqa-mon [OPTIONS] REMOTE [JOBS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
openqa-mon is a command line tool for live monitoring of openQA jobs.
The tool periodically queries one or multiple instances and gives or an
overview of the currently running jobs or monitors a set of given job IDs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h|--help
Print help message

.TP
.B -j|--jobs JOBS
Monitor given job IDs instead of overview on the REMOTE instance.
Supported input is a single job ID, multiple comma-separated job IDs or a job ID range (See examples).
The -j parameter can be omitted, openqa-mon detects an integer, set of interger or integer range automatically and treats them as job IDs

.TP
.B -c|--continuous SECONDS
Enable live monitor and refresh at the given SECONDS intervals

.TP
.B -e|--exit
Exit openqa-mon when all jobs are done (only in continuous mode)

.TP
.B -b|--bell
Enable bell notifications (terminal bell sound)

.TP
.B -n|--notify
Enable desktop notifications (sent via notify-send)

.TP
.B --no-bell
Disable bell notifications

.TP
.B --no-notify
Disable desktop notifications

.TP
.B -m|--monitor
Enable bell and desktop notifications (alias for "--bell --notify")

.TP
.B --silent
Disable bell and desktop notifications (alias for "--no-bell --no-notify")

.TP
.B -f|--follow
Follow jobs, i.e. replace jobs by their clones if available.
This setting is useful to track jobs if they are going to be restarted in openQA.

.TP
.B --no-follow
Don't follow jobs. Useful to override the follow setting from a config file.

.TP
.B --rabbitmq
Explicitly enable RabbitMQ. This feature is still considered experimental

.TP
.B --rabbit FILE
Explicitly enable RabbitMQ and load the RabbitMQ server configuration(s) from FILE.

.TP
.B --no-rabbit
Don't use RabbitMQ, even if available

.TP
.B -p|--hierarchy
Display job hierarchy (i.e. children of the jobs). This is particulary useful for virtualization runs.

.TP
.B --hide-state STATES
Hide jobs with that are in the given state (e.g. 'running,assigned')

.TP
.B --config FILE
Reads additional config file FILE. See CONFIG FILES for details.

.TP
.B -i|--input FILE
Read jobs from FILE, additional to the ones provided via program arguments


.SH CONFIG FILES

.TP
openqa-mon reads by default the following configuration files:
/etc/openqa/openqa-mon.conf (global config) or in  ~/.openqa-mon.conf (user config).
.TP
An example configuration file looks like the following:


.BR "## openqa-mon config file"
.br
.BR "## "
.br
.BR "## this is an example config file for openqa-mon. Modify and place this file in"
.br
.BR "## /etc/openqa/openqa-mon.conf (global) or in ~/.openqa-mon.conf (user config)"
.br
.BR "## "
.br
.BR "## Have a lot of fun ..."
.br
.br
.br
.BR "## Default remote to use, if nothing is defined"
.br
.BR "# DefaultRemote = http://openqa.opensuse.org"
.br
.BR "## Enable bell notifications"
.br
.BR "# Bell = true"
.br
.BR "## Enable desktop notifications"
.br
.BR "# Notification = true"
.br
.BR "## Follow jobs"
.br
.BR "# Follow = true"
.br
.BR "## Enable RabbitMQ (experimental!!)"
.br
.BR "# RabbitMQ = true"

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org
.TP
.PP
List current overview of the instance at https://openqa.opensuse.org

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org -j 42
.TP
.PP
List the status of the job 42 on https://openqa.opensuse.org

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org -j 42..45
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org -j 42+3
.TP
.PP
List the status of the jobs 42,43,44 and 45 from https://openqa.opensuse.org


.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org 42 1335..1339
.B openqa-mon https://openqa.opensuse.org 42 1335+4
.TP
.PP
List the status of the jobs 42 and the jobs from 1335 to 1339. The -j parameter can be omitted
openqa-mon detects integers, sets of integers and integer ranges and treats them as job IDs.

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon -c 5 -b https://openqa.opensuse.org 42,1335..1339
.B openqa-mon -c 5 -b https://openqa.opensuse.org/t42 https://openqa.opensuse.org/t1335..1339
.TP
.PP
Continuously monitor the jobs 42 and the jobs from 1335 to 1339. Refresh every 5 seconds. Ring bell on status changes

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon -b -n -f -c 5 https://openqa.opensuse.org 42
.TP
.PP
Continuously monitor the job 42. Refresh every 5 seconds. Ring bell and displays desktop notification on status changes.
Follow job, if it gets restarted.

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon http://openqa.opensuse.org/t1245
.B openqa-mon http://openqa.opensuse.org/tests/1245
.TP
.PP
Monitor job 1245 on instance http://openqa.opensuse.org/.

.TP
.nf
.B openqa-mon -mfp http://openqa.opensuse.org/t413
.TP
.PP
Monitor job 413 on instance http://openqa.opensuse.org/ with enabled notifications, follow the job and display the hierarchy


.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2025 SUSE LLC

.SH CREDITS
.PP
Creator: Felix Niederwanger <felix.niederwanger@suse.de>

This tool has been created to help me and my colleagues work better with openQA.


.SH
.PP
https://github.com/os-autoinst/openqa-mon openqa-mon(8)
